.\"
.TH kamailio 8 03.02.2021 kamailio "Kamailio SIP Server"
.\" Process with
.\" groff -man -Tascii kamailio.8
.\"
.SH NAME
kamailio \- a very fast and configurable SIP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kamailio
[
.B \-hfcmMdVIhEeblLnvKrRDTNWwtugPGSQOaAxXY
] [
.BI \-a " auto\-aliases\-mode"
] [
.BI \-A " pre\-processor\-define"
] [
.BI \-b " max_rcv_buf_size"
] [
.BI \-f " config\-file"
] [
.BI \-g " gid"
] [
.BI \-G " pgid\-file"
] [
.BI \-l " address"
] [
.BI \-L " modules\-dir"
] [
.BI \-M " private_mem_size"
] [
.BI \-m " shared_mem_size"
] [
.BI \-n " processes\-no"
] [
.BI \-N " tcp processes\-no"
] [
.BI \-P " pid\-file"
] [
.BI \-t " chroot\-dir"
] [
.BI \-u " uid"
] [
.BI \-w " working\-dir"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kamailio
is a very fast and configurable SIP (RFC3261) server.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B
.TP
.BI \-a " auto\-aliases\-mode"
Enable auto-aliases with 'yes' or 'on', disable with 'no' or 'off
.TP
.BI \-\-alias\fR=\fIval
Add an alias, the value has to be '[proto:]hostname[:port]'
(like for 'alias' global parameter)
.TP
.BI \-\-atexit\fR=\fIval
Control atexit callbacks execution from external libraries
which may access destroyed shm memory causing crash on shutdown.
Can be y[es] or 1 to enable atexit callbacks, n[o] or 0 to disable,
default is yes.
.TP
.BI \-A " pre\-processor\-define"
Add config pre-processor define (e.g., -A WITH_AUTH, -A N=1, -A X='"Y"')
.TP
.BI \-b " max_rcv_buf_size"
Maximum receive buffer size which will not be exceeded by the auto-probing procedure even if the OS allows.
.TP
.BI \-c
Checks the config file and displays the aliases and listen interface list.
.TP
.BI \-\-cfg\-print
Print configuration file evaluating includes and ifdefs
.TP
.BI \-d
Turns on debugging, multiple
.B \-d
increase the debug level.
.TP
.BI \-\-debug\fR=\fIval
Debugging level value
.TP
.BI \-D
Control how daemonize is done:
.br
.B \-D
- do not fork (almost) anyway (run in foreground, doesn't fork into daemon mode);
.br
.B \-DD
- do not daemonize creator (main process is not daemonized);
.br
.B \-DDD
- daemonize (default)
.TP
.BI \-e
Log messages printed in terminal colors (requires -E)
.TP
.BI \-E
Sends all the log messages to stderr.
.TP
.BI \-f " config\-file"
Reads the configuration from
.B " config\-file"
(default
.I  /etc/kamailio/kamailio.cfg
).
.TP
.BI \-g " gid"
Changes the group id under which
.B kamailio
runs.
.TP
.BI \-G " pgid\-file"
Creates a file containing the pgid of the main
.B kamailio
process.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Displays a short usage description, including all available options.
.TP
.BI \-I
Displays details of internal constants and attributes.
.TP
.BI \-K
Turns on via host checking when forwarding replies.
.TP
.BI \-l " address"
Listens on the specified address/interface. Multiple
.B \-l
mean listening on multiple addresses. The address format is
[proto:]address[:port], where proto = udp|tcp and
address = host|ip_address|interface_name. Example: -l localhost,
-l udp:127.0.0.1:5080, -l eth0:5062.
The default behaviour is to listen on all the ipv4 interfaces.
.TP
.BI \-\-loadmodule\fR=\fIname
load the module specified by name
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-engine\fR=\fIname
log engine name and data
.TP
.BI \-L " modules\-dir"
Specifies the directory where to look for
.B kamailio
modules (default: /usr/lib/kamailio/modules or /usr/lib64/kamailio/modules)
.TP
.BI \-m " shared_mem_size"
Size of the shared memory which will be allocated (in Megabytes).
.TP
.BI \-\-modparam\fR=\fImodname:paramname:type:value
set the module parameter type has to be 's' for string value and 'i' for int value,
example: --modparam=corex:alias_subdomains:s:" NAME ".org
.TP
.BI \-M " private_mem_size"
Size of the private memory which will be allocated per process (in Megabytes).
.TP
.BI \-n " processes\-no"
Specifies the number of children processes forked per interface (default 8).
.TP
.BI \-N " tcp processes\-no"
Specifies the number of children processes forked to handle tcp incoming connections (by default is equal to
.BI \-n
).
.TP
.BI \-O " optimization\-level"
Script optimization level (debugging option).
.TP
.BI \-P " pid\-file"
Creates a file containing the pid of the main
.B kamailio
process.
.TP
.BI \-Q
Number of sctp child processes (default: equal to
.BI \-n
).
.TP
.BI \-r
Uses dns to check if it is necessary to add a "received=" field to a via.
.TP
.BI \-R
Same as
.B \-r
but uses reverse dns (to use both:
.BI \-rR
).
.TP
.BI \-\-server\-id\fR=\fInum
Set the value for server_id
.TP
.BI \-\-subst\fR=\fIexp
Set a subst preprocessor directive
.TP
.BI \-\-substdef\fR=\fIexp
Set a substdef preprocessor directive
.TP
.BI \-\-substdefs\fR=\fIexp
Set a substdefs preprocessor directive.
.TP
.BI \-S
Disables SCTP support.
.TP
.BI \-t " chroot\-dir"
Forces
.B kamailio
to chroot after reading the config file.
.TP
.BI \-T
Disables TCP support.
.TP
.BI \-u " uid"
Changes the user id under which
.B kamailio
runs.
.TP
.BI "\-v \-V \-\-version"
Displays the version number.
.TP
.BI \-x " name"
Specify internal manager for shared memory (shm) can be: fm, qm or tlsf
.TP
.BI \-X " name"
Specify internal manager for private memory (pkg) if omitted, the one for shm is used
.TP
.BI \-Y " dir"
Runtime dir path
.TP
.BI \-w " working\-dir"
Specifies the working directory. In the very improbable event that
.B kamailio
will crash, the core file will be generated here.
.TP
.BI \-W " type"
poll method (depending on support in OS, it can be: poll,
epoll_lt, epoll_et, sigio_rt, select, kqueue, /dev/poll).
.TP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.B /usr/sbin/kamailio
.br
.B /etc/kamailio/kamailio.cfg
.br
.B /usr/lib/kamailio/modules/*
.PD
.SH AUTHORS

see
.B /usr/share/doc/kamailio/AUTHORS

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kamailio.cfg(5)
.PP
Full documentation on kamailio, including configuration guidelines, FAQs and
licensing conditions, is available at
.I https://www.kamailio.org/
.PP
For reporting  bugs see
.I
https://github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues.
.PP
Mailing lists:
.nf
sr-users@lists.kamailio.org - kamailio user community
.nf
sr-dev@lists.kamailio.org - kamailio development, new features and unstable version
